December community gems (#3058)
iterative/dvc.org: content/blog/2021-12-21-December-21-community-gems.md

```yaml
stages:
  cleanups:
    foreach: # List of simple values
      - raw1
      - labels1
      - raw2
    do:
      cmd: clean.py "${item}"
      outs:
        - ${item}.cln
  train:
    foreach:
      - epochs: 3
        thresh: 10
      - epochs: 10
        thresh: 15
    do:
      cmd: python train.py ${item.epochs} ${item.thresh}
```

You should try the following command:

```dvc
$ dvc repro cleanups@labels1
```

This will run your whole pipeline, but only with `labels1` in the `cleanups`
stage.

### [Is it possible to pull experiments from the remote without checking out the base commit of those experiments?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/485596304961962003/910481311905505290)

Thanks for the question @mattlbeck!

You should be able to do this with `dvc exp pull origin exp-name`.

If you have experiments with the same name on different commits, using
`exp-name` won't work since it defaults to selecting the one based on your
current commit if there are duplicate names.

To work around this, you can use the full refname, like
`refs/exps/e7/78ad744e8d0cd59ddqc65d5d698cf102533f85/exp-6cb7`, to specify the
experiments that you want to work with.

> ### [How should I handle checkpoints in PyTorch Lightning with DVCLive?](YouTube link here)

Author: @daavoo Would you mind taking a look at this and see if it makes sense?

Reviewer: The answer lgtm but I thought we were also going to include the workaround proposed by Ilya? cc @jendefig

Reviewer 2: YEs. Should include work around.

This is a really good question that came from one of our Office Hours talks!

> Thanks Ilya Sirotkin!

Reviewer 2: Let's be sure to tag him. https://www.linkedin.com/in/sirily/
And in his LI profile Ilia is spelled with 'i' instead of 'y'

We have an [open issue](https://github.com/iterative/dvclive/issues/170) we
encourage you to follow for more details and to even contribute!

> Python Lightning handles callbacks differently from many other libraries. This
> affects the way metrics logging is executed and how models are saved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Python Lightning handles checkpoints differently from other libraries. This
affects the way metrics logging is executed and how models are saved.
```

You can write a custom callback to control saving everything and track it with
DVC and this is the workaround we suggest. You can implement the

> `after_save_checkpoint` method and save the model file.

Reviewer 2: Does this fully represent his workaround @Davoo?  Do we want to show the pic with the ins outs?

Author: Yes, please let me know if that is enough for the workaround. I wasn't quite sure what else to add there. 😅

Reviewer: Not fully. Ilia's suggested adapting your code and pipeline to make use of DVC `foreach` and reuse the `ModelCheckpoint` included in `pytorch_lightning`.

Full description of Ilia's suggestion:

<details>

> break your training process into small stages, which you will not be afraid to lose. You should specify the stage’s checkpoint as the output of the stage and set it as a dependency for the next stage. Thus, if something breaks, the dvc repro command will resume your experiment from the last stage.

```yaml
stages:
  stage_0:
    cmd: python train.py
    outs:
      - checkpoints/checkpoint_epoch=0.ckpt
  next:
    foreach:
      - prev: 0
        next: 1
      - prev: 1
        next: 2
    do:
      cmd: python train.py --checkpoint ${item.prev}
      deps:
        - checkpoints/checkpoint_epoch=${item.prev}.ckpt
      outs:
        - checkpoints/checkpoint_epoch=${item.next}.ckpt
```

```python
import os
import pytorch_lightning as pl
import argparse
from dvclive.lightning import DvcLiveLogger
from tests.test_lightning import LitMNIST

if __name__ == '__main__':
    parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()
    parser.add_argument('--checkpoint', dest='prev_epoch', action='store', default=-1,
                        help='Previous epoch number')
    parser.add_argument('--epochs', dest='run_epochs', action='store', default=1,
                        help='Number of epochs to run in this iteration')
    args = parser.parse_args()

    model = LitMNIST()
    # set checkpoint path
    ckpt_path = os.path.abspath(os.path.join(os.path.dirname(__file__), "checkpoints"))
    # checkpoints will be saved to checkpoints/checkpoint_epoch={epoch_number}.ckpt
    cp = pl.callbacks.model_checkpoint.ModelCheckpoint(
        monitor="train_loss_epoch",
        save_top_k=1,
        dirpath=ckpt_path,
        filename='checkpoint_{epoch}')

    # init logger
    dvclive_logger = DvcLiveLogger()
    # set None if it is the first run
    resume_from_checkpoint = None if int(args.prev_epoch) < 0 else os.path.join(ckpt_path, f"checkpoint_epoch={args.prev_epoch}.ckpt")
    # increase maximum number of epochs to run current iteration
    max_ep = max(1, int(args.prev_epoch) + 1 + int(args.run_epochs))
    trainer = pl.Trainer(
        logger=dvclive_logger, max_epochs=max_ep,
        callbacks=[cp],
        resume_from_checkpoint=resume_from_checkpoint
    )
    trainer.fit(model)
```
</details>

If this is too long to include, I can add this suggestion as a comment in the `dvclive` issue so the community gem post could just link .

Author: I included pieces of the code, but I think it'll be better to have the entire workaround as a comment in the `dvclive` issue.

Reviewer 3: @daavoo can it be done simpler with persistent outputs? why the common way dvc/dvclive handle checkpoints doesn't work? Could you please give a bit more context? Is there a ticket for this?

Author: @shcheklein Here's a link to this issue: https://github.com/iterative/dvclive/issues/170

This seems like a discussion better for that issue than here in community gems.

### [Is there a feature for DVC to only sample and cache a subset of the tracked dataset?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/485596304961962003/917778575845900340)

Really great question @Abdi!

You should be able to use the streaming capability of the DVC API to achieve
this goal.

Here is an exaple of a Python script that would do this:

```python
from dvc.api import open as dvcopen

with dvcopen('data','{repo_url}') as fd:
    for line in fd:
        print(line)
```

---

https://media.giphy.com/media/h5Ct5uxV5RfwY/giphy.gif

> At our January Office Hours Meetup we will be doing a new thing!

Reviewer 4: Can we share a little more about the "new thing"? As a reader, I'd like to see at least some details.

Author: No problem! This is just some placeholder text from earlier. 😅  I usually update this once the Meetup link is up. But it's updated now!

---
title: December '21 Community Gems
date: 2021-12-21
description: >
  A roundup of technical Q&A's from the DVC community. This month: comparing
  experiments, working with data, working with pipelines, and more.
descriptionLong: >
  A roundup of technical Q&A's from the DVC community. This month: comparing
  experiments, working with data, working with pipelines, and more.
picture: 2021-12-21/dec-community-gems.png
author: milecia_mcgregor
commentsUrl: https://discuss.dvc.org/t/december-21-community-gems/1001
tags:
  - Data Versioning
  - DVC Remotes
  - DVC API
  - DVC Stages
  - Community
---

> ### [While doing a `dvc pull`, I accidentally entered the verification from the wrong Google account. How can I edit that?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/563406153334128681/908437162150739978)

Reviewer 3: We can generalize a bit. - "I'm using Google Drive as a remote storage and accidentally ... "

No problem @fireballpoint1! This happens sometimes.

You should be able to run the following command in your terminal and then
re-enter your credentials.

> ```bash

Reviewer 3: for CLI it's fine to use `dvc` not `bash` 

`dvc` includes `bash` + some extra things

$ rm .dvc/tmp/gdrive-user-credentials.json
```

That should give you a chance to enter the correct credentials when you try to
`dvc pull` again.

### [Can I add a `dvc remote` which refers to NAS by IP so I don't have to mount on every computer?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/563406153334128681/912667503283564544)

That's a new question for us @Krzysztof Begiedza!

> If you enable the SSH service on your NAS, you can configure DVC to use it as an

Reviewer 3: should we put a link to `dvc remote add`, SSH section?

SSH remote.

> There should also be DSM packages for webdav as well, if you prefer that over

Reviewer 3: what DSM stands for ? put a link or make it more explicit?

> SSH. Just make sure that your URL looks similar to this.

Reviewer 3: remote storage URL?

Reviewer 3: or even say, when you run `dvc remote add -d storage <URL>`?

and also add a link to Webdav remotes?

```dvc

> url = webdav://<ip>/<path>

Reviewer 3: Here `dvc` won't work, it's not CLI

also, probably you don't need `url =`

```

### [Can you selectively `dvc pull` data files?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/563406153334128681/913713923667148850)

Great question @Clemens!

> You would `dvc import` the relevant files into each of your individual projects

Reviewer 3: I don't quite understand this answer to be honest, why do I need to import anything? If I can do `dvc pull <file>` or pull has `--glob` option to specify what to pull.

In their case the could make a data registry (add link to use case) and then use `dvc import` in other projects to get a specific dataset (no need for granular pull in that case).

I would mention both of those option in that seauence.

and run `dvc pull` in there. DVC will then only pull the relevant files.

The command for that pull would be similar to this.

```dvc
$ dvc pull path/to/specific/file
```

### [What is the fastest way to get the specific value of a metric of an experiment based on experiment id?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/563406153334128681/916328260856590346)

That's a really good question @Kwon-Young!

You can always look through experiment metrics with `dvc exp show` and this
shows you all of the experiments you've run.

To get the metrics for a specific experiment or set of experiments, you'll need
the experiment ids and then you can use the Python API like this example.

```python
from dvc.repo import Repo

dvc = Repo(".")  # or Repo("path/to/repo/dir")
metrics = dvc.metrics.show(revs=["exp-name1", "exp-name2", ...])
```

This returns a Python dictionary that contains what gets displayed in
`dvc metrics show --json` except you're able to specify the experiments you
want.

> ### [If I have a DVC pipeline with many stages as well as `foreach` in every stage, is it possibile to run the whole pipeline but only for one element of the `foreach`?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/563406153334128681/915986804577026088)

Reviewer 3: I would simplify the question - "is it possible to run the whole pipeline but only for one element of the `foreach`"

(btw - possibile-> possible)

dependency for the next stage. That way if something breaks, the `dvc repro`
command will resume your experiment from the last stage.

Your pipeline might look something like this:

```yaml
stages:
  stage_0:
    cmd: python train.py
    outs:
      - checkpoints/checkpoint_epoch=0.ckpt
  next:
    foreach:
      - prev: 0
        next: 1
      - prev: 1
        next: 2
    do:
      cmd: python train.py --checkpoint ${item.prev}
      deps:
        - checkpoints/checkpoint_epoch=${item.prev}.ckpt
      outs:
        - checkpoints/checkpoint_epoch=${item.next}.ckpt
```

Then you'll need to reuse the `ModelCheckpoint` that is included in
`pytorch_lightning` to capture the checkpoints. Here's a snippet of what that
could look like in your training script:

```python
# set checkpoint path
ckpt_path = os.path.abspath(os.path.join(os.path.dirname(__file__), "checkpoints"))

# checkpoints will be saved to checkpoints/checkpoint_epoch={epoch_number}.ckpt
cp = pl.callbacks.model_checkpoint.ModelCheckpoint(
    monitor="train_loss_epoch",
    save_top_k=1,
    dirpath=ckpt_path,
    filename='checkpoint_{epoch}')
```

> ### [Is there a feature for DVC to only sample and cache a subset of the tracked dataset?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/485596304961962003/917778575845900340)

Reviewer 3: I would add `(e.g.  10000 lines of a large file)`

Really great question @Abdi!

You should be able to use the streaming capability of the DVC API to achieve
this goal.

> Here is an exaple of a Python script that would do this:

Reviewer 5: example :)

```python
from dvc.api import open as dvcopen

> with dvcopen('data','{repo_url}') as fd:

Reviewer 5: `f'{repo_url}'` might be better. Defining `repo_url` might be good too.
